.TH curs_attr 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBcurs_attr\fR: \fBattroff\fR, \fBwattroff\fR, \fBattron\fR, \fBwattron\fR,
\fBattrset\fR, \fBwattrset\fR, \fBstandend\fR, \fBwstandend\fR, \fBstandout\fR,
\fBwstandout\fR - \fBncurses\fR character and window attribute control routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.br
\fBint attroff(attr_t attrs);\fR
.br
\fBint wattroff(WINDOW *win, attr_t attrs);\fR
.br
\fBint attron(attr_t attrs);\fR
.br
\fBint wattron(WINDOW *win, attr_t attrs);\fR
.br
\fBint attrset(attr_t attrs);\fR
.br
\fBint wattrset(WINDOW *win, attr_t attrs);\fR
.br
\fBint standend(void);\fR
.br
\fBint wstandend(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint standout(void);\fR
.br
\fBint wstandout(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint attr_get(void);\fR
.br
\fBint attr_off(attr_t attrs);\fR
.br
\fBint attr_on(attr_t attrs);\fR
.br
\fBint attr_set(attr_t attrs);\fR
.br
\fBint wattr_get(WINDOW *, void);\fR
.br
\fBint wattr_off(WINDOW *, attr_t attrs);\fR
.br
\fBint wattr_on(WINDOW *, attr_t attrs);\fR
.br
\fBint wattr_set(WINDOW *, attr_t attrs);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines manipulate the current attributes of the named window.  The
current attributes of a window apply to all characters that are written into
the window with \fBwaddch\fR, \fBwaddstr\fR and \fBwprintw\fR.  Attributes are
a property of the character, and move with the character through any scrolling
and insert/delete line/character operations.  To the extent possible, they are
displayed as appropriate modifications to the graphic rendition of characters
put on the screen.

The routine \fBattrset\fR sets the current attributes of the given window to
\fIattrs\fR.  The routine \fBattroff\fR turns off the named attributes without
turning any other attributes on or off.  The routine \fBattron\fR turns on the
named attributes without affecting any others.  The routine \fBstandout\fR is
the same as \fBattron(A_STANDOUT)\fR.  The routine \fBstandend\fR is the same
as \fBattrset(A_NORMAL)\fR or \fBattrset(0)\fR, that is, it turns off all
attributes.

The routine \fBwattr_get\fR returns the current attribute for the given
window; \fBattr_get\fR returns the current attribute for \fBstdscr\fR.
The remaining \fBattr_\fR* functions operate exactly like the corresponding
\fBattr\fR* functions, exceptthat they take arguments of type \fBattr_t\fR
rather than \fBint\fR. 
.SS Attributes
The following video attributes, defined in \fB<curses.h>\fR, can be passed to
the routines \fBattron\fR, \fBattroff\fR, and \fBattrset\fR, or OR-ed with the
characters passed to \fBaddch\fR.

.nf
\fBA_NORMAL\fR       Normal display (no highlight)
\fBA_STANDOUT\fR     Best highlighting mode of the terminal.
\fBA_UNDERLINE\fR    Underlining
\fBA_REVERSE\fR      Reverse video
\fBA_BLINK\fR        Blinking
\fBA_DIM\fR          Half bright
\fBA_BOLD\fR         Extra bright or bold
\fBA_PROTECT\fR      Protected mode
\fBA_INVIS\fR        Invisible or blank mode
\fBA_ALTCHARSET\fR   Alternate character set
\fBA_PCCHARSET\fR    Enable PC ROM graphics 0-31 (PC clones only)
\fBA_CHARTEXT\fR     Bit-mask to extract a character
\fBCOLOR_PAIR(\fR\fIn\fR\fB)\fR  Color-pair number \fIn\fR
.fi

The following macro is the reverse of \fBCOLOR_PAIR(\fR\fIn\fR\fB)\fR:

.DS C
\fBPAIR_NUMBER(\fIattrs\fR) Returns the pair number associated 
                   with the \fBCOLOR_PAIR(\fR\fIn\fR\fB)\fR attribute.
.DE

The return values of these routines are not meaningful (many are implemented
as macro-expanded assignments and simply return their argument).  The SVr4
manual page claims (falsely) that these routines always return \fB1\fR.

.SH NOTES
Note that \fBattroff\fR, \fBwattroff\fR, \fBattron\fR, \fBwattron\fR,
\fBattrset\fR, \fBwattrset\fR, \fBstandend\fR and \fBstandout\fR may be macros.
.SH EXTENSIONS
The \fBA_PCCHARSET\fR highlight is available only on PC clones (and is not 
part of the XSI standard).  For
portability, wrap any code that uses it in #ifdef A_PCCHARSET/#endif.
See the EXTENSIONS sections of \fBcurs_addch\fR(3x) for details.
.SH PORTABILITY
All these functions are supported in the XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.  The
standard defined the dedicated type for highlights, \fBattr_t\fR, which is not
defined in SVr4 curses. 

The XSI Curses standard states that whether the traditional functions
\fBattron\fR/\fBattroff\fR/\fBattrset\fR can manipulate attributes other than
\fBA_BLINK\fR, \fBA_BOLD\fR, \fBA_DIM\fR, \fBA_REVERSE\fR, \fBA_STANDOUT\fR, or
\fBA_UNDERLINE\fR is "unspecified".  Under ncurses as well as SVr4 curses,
these functions correctly manipulate all other highlights (specifically,
\fBA_ALTCHARSET\fR, \fBA_PROTECT\fR, and \fBA_INVIS\fR).

XSI Curses added the new entry points, \fBattr_get\fR, \fBattr_on\fR,
\fBattr_off\fR, \fBattr_get\fR, \fBwattr_on\fR, \fBwattr_off\fR,
\fBwattr_get\fR, \fBwattr_get\fR.  These are intended to work with
a new series of highlight macros prefixed with \fBWA_\fR.

.nf
\fBWA_NORMAL\fR       Normal display (no highlight)
\fBWA_STANDOUT\fR     Best highlighting mode of the terminal.
\fBWA_UNDERLINE\fR    Underlining
\fBWA_REVERSE\fR      Reverse video
\fBWA_BLINK\fR        Blinking
\fBWA_DIM\fR          Half bright
\fBWA_BOLD\fR         Extra bright or bold
\fBWA_ALTCHARSET\fR   Alternate character set
.fi

The XSI curses standard specifies that each pair of corresponding \fBA_\fR
and \fBWA_\fR-using functions operates on the same current-highlight
information.  

The XSI standard does not support \fBA_PCCHARSET\fR.  The extended
conformance level adds new highlights \fBA_HORIZONTAL\fR, \fBA_LEFT\fR,
\fBA_LOW\fR, \fBA_RIGHT\fR, \fBA_TOP\fR, \fBA_VERTICAL\fR (and corresponding
\fBWA_\fR macros for each) which ncurses does not yet support.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBncurses\fR(3X), \fBcurs_addch\fR(3X), \fBcurs_addstr\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_printw\fR(3X)
.\"#
.\"# The following sets edit modes for GNU EMACS
.\"# Local Variables:
.\"# mode:nroff
.\"# fill-column:79
.\"# End:
