.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright 2018-2023,2024 Thomas E. Dickey                                *
.\" Copyright 1998-2016,2017 Free Software Foundation, Inc.                  *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a  *
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the            *
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including      *
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute with modifications, sublicense, and/or sell       *
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is    *
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included  *
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright   *
.\" holders shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written       *
.\" authorization.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_kernel.3x,v 1.67 2024/06/22 21:24:26 tom Exp $
.TH curs_kernel 3X 2024-06-22 "ncurses @NCURSES_MAJOR@.@NCURSES_MINOR@" "Library calls"
.ie \n(.g \{\
.ds `` \(lq
.ds '' \(rq
.\}
.el \{\
.ie t .ds `` ``
.el   .ds `` ""
.ie t .ds '' ''
.el   .ds '' ""
.\}
.
.de bP
.ie n  .IP \(bu 4
.el    .IP \(bu 2
..
.SH NAME
\fB\%def_prog_mode\fP,
\fB\%def_shell_mode\fP,
\fB\%reset_prog_mode\fP,
\fB\%reset_shell_mode\fP,
\fB\%resetty\fP,
\fB\%savetty\fP,
\fB\%getsyx\fP,
\fB\%setsyx\fP,
\fB\%curs_set\fP,
\fB\%mvcur\fP,
\fB\%napms\fP,
\fB\%ripoffline\fP \-
low-level \fIcurses\fR routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <curses.h>
.PP
\fBint def_prog_mode(void);
\fBint def_shell_mode(void);
.PP
\fBint reset_prog_mode(void);
\fBint reset_shell_mode(void);
.PP
\fBint resetty(void);
\fBint savetty(void);
.PP
\fBvoid getsyx(int \fIy\fP, int \fIx\fP);
\fBvoid setsyx(int \fIy\fP, int \fIx\fP);
.PP
\fBint curs_set(int \fIvisibility\fP);
\fBint mvcur(int \fIoldrow\fP, int \fIoldcol\fP, int \fInewrow\fP, int \fInewcol\fP);
\fBint napms(int \fIms\fP);
\fBint ripoffline(int \fIline\fP, int (*\fIinit\fP)(WINDOW *, int));
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The following routines give low-level access
to various \fBcurses\fP capabilities.
These routines typically are used inside library routines.
.SS "def_prog_mode, def_shell_mode"
The \fBdef_prog_mode\fP and \fBdef_shell_mode\fP routines save the
current terminal modes as the \*(``program\*(''
(in \fBcurses\fP) or \*(``shell\*(''
(not in \fBcurses\fP) state for use by the \fBreset_prog_mode\fP and
\fBreset_shell_mode\fP routines.
This is done automatically by \fBinitscr\fP.
There is one such save area for each screen context
allocated by \fBnewterm\fP.
.SS "reset_prog_mode, reset_shell_mode"
The \fBreset_prog_mode\fP and \fBreset_shell_mode\fP routines restore
the terminal to \*(``program\*('' (in \fBcurses\fP) or \*(``shell\*('' (out of
\fBcurses\fP) state.
These are done automatically by \fBendwin\fP(3X) and,
after an \fBendwin\fP, by \fBdoupdate\fP,
so they normally are not called.
.SS "resetty, savetty"
The \fBresetty\fP and \fBsavetty\fP routines save and restore the
state of the terminal modes.
\fBsavetty\fP saves the current state in
a buffer and \fBresetty\fP restores the state to what it was at the
last call to \fBsavetty\fP.
.SS getsyx
.B \%getsyx
stores the coordinates of virtual screen
.RB \%( newscr )
cursor in
.I y
and
.IR x "."
If
.BR \%newscr 's
\fB\%leaveok\fP(3X) output option is
.BR TRUE ","
.B \%getsyx
stores
.B \-1
in both
.I y
and
.IR x "."
If lines have been removed from the top of the screen using
.BR \%ripoffline ","
.I y
includes these lines;
therefore,
.I y
and
.I x
populated by
.B \%getsyx
should be used only as arguments for
.BR \%setsyx "."
.PP
Few applications use this feature;
most call \fB\%getyx\fP(3X) instead.
.SS setsyx
.B \%setsyx
sets the virtual screen
.RB \%( newscr )
cursor location to
.RI ( y ,
.IR x ")."
.B "\%setsyx(\-1, \-1)"
is equivalent to
.BR "\%leaveok(newscr, TRUE)" "."
.PP
.B \%getsyx
and
.B \%setsyx
are designed to be used by a function that manipulates
.I curses
windows but seeks to avoid changing the cursor position.
Such a function would first call
.BR \%getsyx ","
modify its windows' content,
call \fB\%wnoutrefresh\fP(3X) on them,
call
.BR \%setsyx ","
then call \fB\%doupdate\fP(3X).
.PP
Few applications use this feature;
most call \fB\%wmove\fP(3X) instead.
.SS curs_set
The \fBcurs_set\fP routine sets the cursor state to invisible,
normal, or very visible for \fBvisibility\fP equal to \fB0\fP,
\fB1\fP, or \fB2\fP respectively.
If the terminal supports the \fIvisibility\fP requested,
the previous \fIcursor\fP state is returned;
otherwise, \fBERR\fP is returned.
.SS mvcur
.B \%mvcur
provides low-level cursor motion.
It takes effect immediately,
rather than at the next refresh.
Unlike the other low-level output functions,
which either write to the standard output stream
or are passed a function pointer to perform output,
.B \%mvcur
uses a file descriptor derived from the output stream parameter of
\fB\%newterm\fP(3X).
.PP
One application of
.B \%mvcur
accompanies the temporary use of another program to write to the
terminal screen.
For example,
first call \fB\%refresh\fP(3X) to ensure that the screen and the
library's model of it is up to date;
then call
.BR \%reset_shell_mode ";"
write to the screen with the external application;
call
.BR \%reset_prog_mode ";"
and finally call
.BR \%mvcur( ".\|.\|." ,
.RB .\|.\|. ,
.B \-1, \-1)
to move the terminal cursor to where
.I \%curses
thinks it is,
since the library has no knowledge of how the external application
moved it.
.\" https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-ncurses/2016-10/msg00002.html
.SS napms
.B \%napms
sleeps for
.I ms
milliseconds.
If
.I ms
exceeds 30,000
(thirty seconds),
it is capped at that value.
.SS ripoffline
.B \%ripoffline
provides access to the same facility that \fB\%slk_init\fP(3X) uses to
reduce the size of the screen.
\fB\%ripoffline\fP must be called before \fBinitscr\fP or
\fBnewterm\fP is called, to prepare these initial actions:
.bP
If \fIline\fP is positive, a line is removed from the top of \fBstdscr\fP.
.bP
if \fIline\fP is negative, a line is removed from the bottom.
.PP
When the resulting initialization is done inside \fBinitscr\fP, the
routine \fBinit\fP (supplied by the user) is called with two
arguments:
.bP
a window pointer to the one-line window that has been
allocated and
.bP
an integer with the number of columns in the window.
.PP
Inside this initialization routine, the integer variables \fBLINES\fP
and \fBCOLS\fP (defined in \fB<curses.h>\fP) are not guaranteed to be
accurate and \fBwrefresh\fP or \fBdoupdate\fP must not be called.
It is allowable to call \fBwnoutrefresh\fP during the initialization routine.
.PP
\fBripoffline\fP can be called up to five times before calling \fBinitscr\fP or
\fBnewterm\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Except for \fBcurs_set\fP, these routines always return \fBOK\fP.
.PP
\fBcurs_set\fP
returns the previous cursor state, or \fBERR\fP if the
requested \fIvisibility\fP is not supported.
.PP
X/Open defines no error conditions.
In this implementation
.TP 5
\fBdef_prog_mode\fP, \fBdef_shell_mode\fP, \fBreset_prog_mode\fP, \fBreset_shell_mode\fP
return
.B ERR
if the terminal was not initialized, or
if the I/O call to obtain the terminal settings fails.
.TP 5
\fBripoffline\fP
returns
.B ERR
if the maximum number of ripped-off lines
exceeds the maximum (5).
.SH NOTES
Note that \fBgetsyx\fP is a macro, so \fB&\fP is not necessary before
the variables \fIy\fP and \fIx\fP.
.PP
Older SVr4 man pages warn that the return value
of \fBcurs_set\fP \*(``is currently incorrect\*(''.
This implementation gets it right, but it may be unwise to count
on the correctness of the return value anywhere else.
.PP
Both \fI\%ncurses\fP and SVr4 will call \fBcurs_set\fP in \fBendwin\fP
if \fBcurs_set\fP
has been called to make the cursor other than normal, i.e., either
invisible or very visible.
There is no way for \fI\%ncurses\fP to determine the initial cursor
state to restore that.
.SH EXTENSIONS
In
.IR \%ncurses ","
.B \%mvcur
accepts
.B \-1
for either or both old coordinates.
This value tells
.I \%ncurses
that the old location is unknown,
and that it must use only absolute motion,
as with the
.B \%cursor_address
.RB ( cup )
capability,
rather than the least costly combination of absolute and relative
motion.
.SH PORTABILITY
Applications employing
.I \%ncurses
extensions should condition their use on the visibility of the
.B \%NCURSES_VERSION
preprocessor macro.
.PP
The \fIvirtual screen\fP functions \fBsetsyx\fP and \fBgetsyx\fP
are not described in X/Open Curses, Issue 4.
All other functions are as described in X/Open Curses.
.PP
The SVr4 documentation describes \fBsetsyx\fP and \fBgetsyx\fP
as having return type int.
This is misleading, as they are macros with no documented semantics
for the return value.
.PP
X/Open Curses notes:
.RS
.PP
\*(``After use of
.IR \%mvcur "(),"
the model Curses maintains of the state of the terminal might not
match the actual state of the terminal.
An application should touch and refresh the window before
resuming conventional use of Curses.\*(''
.RE
.PP
Both
.I \%ncurses
and SVr4
.I curses
implement
.B \%mvcur
using the
.I SCREEN
data allocated in either \fB\%initscr\fP(3X) or \fB\%newterm\fP(3X).
X/Open Curses states that the old location must be given for
.B \%mvcur
to accommodate terminals that lack absolute cursor positioning.
.\" X/Open Curses Issue 7, p. 161
.PP
If interrupted, \fI\%ncurses\fP restarts \fBnapms\fP.
That, and the limitation to 30 seconds,
are different from other implementations.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fB\%curses\fP(3X),
\fB\%curs_initscr\fP(3X),
\fB\%curs_outopts\fP(3X),
\fB\%curs_refresh\fP(3X),
\fB\%curs_scr_dump\fP(3X),
\fB\%curs_slk\fP(3X),
\fB\%curs_variables\fP(3X)
