.TH curs_termcap 3X ""
.ds n 5
.SH NAME
\fBcurs_termcap\fR: \fBtgetent\fR, \fBtgetflag\fR, \fBtgetnum\fR,
\fBtgetstr\fR, \fBtgoto\fR, \fBtputs\fR - direct \fBncurses\fR
interface to the terminfo capability database
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.br
\fB#include <term.h>\fR
.br
\fBint tgetent(char *bp, char *name);\fR
.br
\fBint tgetflag(char* id);\fR
.br
\fBint tgetnum(char* id);\fR
.br
\fBchar *tgetstr(char* id, char **area);\fR
.br
\fBchar *tgoto(char *cap, int col, int row);\fR
.br
\fBint tputs(char *str, int affcnt, int (*putc)(void));\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines are included as a conversion aid for programs that use
the \fItermcap\fR library.  Their parameters are the same and the
routines are emulated using the \fIterminfo\fR database.  Thus, they
can only be used to query the capabilities of entries for which a
terminfo entry has been compiled.

The \fBtgetent\fR routine loads the entry for \fIname\fR.
The emulation ignores the buffer pointer \fIbp\fR.

The \fBtgetflag\fR routine gets the boolean entry for \fIid\fR.

The \fBtgetnum\fR routine gets the numeric entry for \fIid\fR.

The \fBtgetstr\fR routine returns the string entry for \fIid\fR.  Use
\fBtputs\fR to output the returned string.

The \fBtgoto\fR routine instantiates the parameters into the given capability.
The output from this routine is to be passed to \fBtputs\fR.

The \fBtputs\fR routine is described on the curs_\fBterminfo\fR(\*n) manual page.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Routines that return an integer return \fBERR\fR upon failure and \fBOK\fR
(SVr4 only specifies "an integer value other than \fBERR\fR") upon successful
completion.

Routines that return pointers return \fBNULL\fR on error.
.SH BUGS
If you call \fBtgetstr\fR to fetch \fBca\fR or any other parameterized string,
be aware that it will be returned in terminfo notation, not the older and
not-quite-compatible termcap notation.  This won't cause problems if all
you do with it is call \fBtgoto\fR or \fBtparm\fR, which both expand
terminfo-style.
.SH PORTABILITY
The XSI Curses draft describes these functions.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBncurses\fR(3X), \fBcurs_terminfo(\*n), putc(3S).\fR
.\"#
.\"# The following sets edit modes for GNU EMACS
.\"# Local Variables:
.\"# mode:nroff
.\"# fill-column:79
.\"# End:
