.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright 2019-2022,2023 Thomas E. Dickey                                *
.\" Copyright 2002-2012,2017 Free Software Foundation, Inc.                  *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a  *
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the            *
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including      *
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute with modifications, sublicense, and/or sell       *
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is    *
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included  *
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright   *
.\" holders shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written       *
.\" authorization.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_add_wchstr.3x,v 1.32 2023/11/25 14:01:49 tom Exp $
.TH curs_add_wchstr 3X 2023-11-25 "ncurses 6.4" "Library calls"
.ie \n(.g \{\
.ds `` \(lq
.ds '' \(rq
.\}
.el \{\
.ie t .ds `` ``
.el   .ds `` ""
.ie t .ds '' ''
.el   .ds '' ""
.\}
.
.de bP
.ie n  .IP \(bu 4
.el    .IP \(bu 2
..
.SH NAME
\fB\%add_wchstr\fP,
\fB\%add_wchnstr\fP,
\fB\%wadd_wchstr\fP,
\fB\%wadd_wchnstr\fP,
\fB\%mvadd_wchstr\fP,
\fB\%mvadd_wchnstr\fP,
\fB\%mvwadd_wchstr\fP,
\fB\%mvwadd_wchnstr\fP \-
add a \fIcurses\fR complex character string to a window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <curses.h>
.PP
\fBint add_wchstr(const cchar_t *\fIwchstr\fP);
\fBint add_wchnstr(const cchar_t *\fIwchstr\fP, int \fIn\fP);
\fBint wadd_wchstr(WINDOW * \fIwin\fP, const cchar_t *\fIwchstr\fP);
\fBint wadd_wchnstr(WINDOW * \fIwin\fP, const cchar_t *\fIwchstr\fP, int \fIn\fP);
.PP
\fBint mvadd_wchstr(int \fIy\fP, int \fIx\fP, const cchar_t *\fIwchstr\fP);
\fBint mvadd_wchnstr(int \fIy\fP, int \fIx\fP, const cchar_t *\fIwchstr\fP, int \fIn\fP);
\fBint mvwadd_wchstr(WINDOW *\fIwin\fP, int \fIy\fP, int \fIx\fP, const cchar_t *\fIwchstr\fP);
\fBint mvwadd_wchnstr(WINDOW *\fIwin\fP, int \fIy\fP, int \fIx\fP, const cchar_t *\fIwchstr\fP, int \fIn\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions copy the (null-terminated)
array of complex characters \fIwchstr\fP
into the window image structure
starting at the current cursor position.
.PP
The four functions with \fIn\fP as the last
argument copy at most \fIn\fP elements,
but no more than will fit on the line.
If \fBn\fP=\fB\-1\fP then the whole array is copied,
to the maximum number of characters that will fit on the line.
.PP
The window cursor is \fInot\fP advanced.
These functions are faster than \fBwaddnstr\fP.
On the other hand:
.bP
they do not perform checking
(such as for the newline, backspace, or carriage return characters),
.bP
they do not advance the current cursor position,
.bP
they do not expand other control characters to ^-escapes, and
.bP
they truncate the string if it crosses the right margin,
rather than wrapping it around to the new line.
.PP
These functions end successfully
on encountering a null \fBcchar_t\fP, or
when they have filled the current line.
If a complex character cannot completely fit at the end of the current line,
the remaining columns are filled with the background character and rendition.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All functions return the integer \fBERR\fP upon failure and \fBOK\fP on success.
.PP
X/Open does not define any error conditions.
This implementation returns an error
.bP
if the \fIwin\fP parameter is null or
.bP
if the \fIwchstr\fP parameter is null.
.PP
Functions with a \*(``mv\*('' prefix first perform a cursor movement using
\fBwmove\fP, and return an error if the position is outside the window,
or if the window pointer is null.
.SH NOTES
All functions except \fBwadd_wchnstr\fP may be macros.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions are described in the XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fB\%curses\fP(3X),
\fB\%curs_addch\fP(3X),
\fB\%curs_addchstr\fP(3X),
\fB\%curs_addstr\fP(3X),
\fB\%curs_addwstr\fP(3X),
\fB\%curs_add_wch\fP(3X)
