.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright 2018-2022,2023 Thomas E. Dickey                                *
.\" Copyright 1998-2010,2017 Free Software Foundation, Inc.                  *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a  *
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the            *
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including      *
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute with modifications, sublicense, and/or sell       *
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is    *
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included  *
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright   *
.\" holders shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written       *
.\" authorization.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_move.3x,v 1.33 2023/12/16 21:33:08 tom Exp $
.TH curs_move 3X 2023-12-16 "ncurses 6.4" "Library calls"
.ie \n(.g \{\
.ds `` \(lq
.ds '' \(rq
.\}
.el \{\
.ie t .ds `` ``
.el   .ds `` ""
.ie t .ds '' ''
.el   .ds '' ""
.\}
.
.SH NAME
\fB\%move\fP,
\fB\%wmove\fP \-
move cursor in a \fIcurses\fR window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <curses.h>
.PP
\fBint move(int \fIy\fP, int \fIx\fP);
\fBint wmove(WINDOW *\fIwin\fP, int \fIy\fP, int \fIx\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines move the cursor associated with the window to line \fIy\fP and
column \fIx\fP.
This routine does not move the physical cursor of the terminal
until \fBrefresh\fP(3X) is called.
The position specified is relative to the upper
left-hand corner of the window, which is (0,0).
.SH RETURN VALUE
These routines return the integer \fBERR\fP upon failure and an \fBOK\fP
(SVr4 specifies only
\*(``an integer value other than \fBERR\fP\*('')
upon successful completion.
.PP
Specifically, they return an error
if the window pointer is null, or
if the position is outside the window.
.SH NOTES
Note that \fBmove\fP may be a macro.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions are described in the XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fB\%curses\fP(3X),
\fB\%curs_refresh\fP(3X)
