.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright 2019-2023,2024 Thomas E. Dickey                                *
.\" Copyright 2002-2010,2017 Free Software Foundation, Inc.                  *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a  *
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the            *
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including      *
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute with modifications, sublicense, and/or sell       *
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is    *
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included  *
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright   *
.\" holders shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written       *
.\" authorization.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_ins_wch.3x,v 1.34 2024/07/27 20:05:18 tom Exp $
.TH curs_ins_wch 3X 2024-07-27 "ncurses @NCURSES_MAJOR@.@NCURSES_MINOR@" "Library calls"
.ie \n(.g \{\
.ds `` \(lq
.ds '' \(rq
.\}
.el \{\
.ie t .ds `` ``
.el   .ds `` ""
.ie t .ds '' ''
.el   .ds '' ""
.\}
.SH NAME
\fB\%ins_wch\fP,
\fB\%wins_wch\fP,
\fB\%mvins_wch\fP,
\fB\%mvwins_wch\fP \-
insert a \fIcurses\fR complex character in a window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <curses.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint ins_wch(const cchar_t * \fIwch\fP);
\fBint wins_wch(WINDOW * \fIwin\fP, const cchar_t * \fIwch\fP);
\fBint mvins_wch(int \fIy\fP, int \fIx\fP, const cchar_t * \fIwch\fP);
\fBint mvwins_wch(WINDOW * \fIwin\fP, int \fIy\fP, int \fIx\fP, const cchar_t * \fIwch\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions insert the
.I curses
complex character
.I wch
at the cursor in the specified window
.I win
(or
.BR \%stdscr ).
The character previously at the cursor and any to its right move one
cell to the right;
the rightmost character on the line is discarded.
The cursor does not advance.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
These functions return \fBOK\fP on success and \fBERR\fP on failure.
.PP
Functions taking a
.I \%WINDOW
pointer argument fail if the pointer is
.BR NULL .
.PP
Functions prefixed with \*(``mv\*('' first perform cursor movement and
fail if the position
.RI ( y ,
.IR x )
is outside the window boundaries.
.SH NOTES
\fB\%ins_wch\fP,
\fB\%mvins_wch\fP,
and
\fB\%mvwins_wch\fP
may be implemented as macros.
.PP
A terminal's
.B \%insert_character
.RB ( ich1 )
capability
is not necessarily employed.
.SH PORTABILITY
X/Open Curses,
Issue 4 describes these functions.
.PP
SVr4 describes successful return values only as
\*(``an integer value other than \fBERR\fP\*(''.
.SH HISTORY
These functions were initially specified by X/Open Curses,
Issue 4.
The System\ V Interface Definition,
Version 4 (1995),
specified a function named
.I \%winswch
(and the usual variants).
.\" SVID 4, vol 3., p. 512
This was a later addition to
.RI SVr4. x ,
not appearing in the first SVr4 (1989).
It differed from X/Open's later
.I \%wins_wch
in that it took an argument of type
.I \%chtype
instead of
.IR \%cchar_t "."
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fB\%curs_insch\fP(3X) describes comparable functions in the
non-wide-character
.I curses
configuration.
.PP
\fB\%curses\fP(3X),
\fB\%terminfo\fP(5)
