.TH curs_clear 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBcurs_clear\fR: \fBerase\fR, \fBwerase\fR, \fBclear\fR,
\fBwclear\fR, \fBclrtobot\fR, \fBwclrtobot\fR, \fBclrtoeol\fR,
\fBwclrtoeol\fR - clear all or part of a \fBncurses\fR window
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB# include <curses.h>\fR

\fBint erase(void);\fR
.br
\fBint werase(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint clear(void);\fR
.br
\fBint wclear(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint clrtobot(void);\fR
.br
\fBint wclrtobot(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
\fBint clrtoeol(void);\fR
.br
\fBint wclrtoeol(WINDOW *win);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBerase\fR and \fBwerase\fR routines copy blanks to every
position in the window, clearing the screen.

The \fBclear\fR and \fBwclear\fR routines are like \fBerase\fR and
\fBwerase\fR, but they also call \fBclearok\fR, so that the screen is
cleared completely on the next call to \fBwrefresh\fR for that window
and repainted from scratch.

The \fBclrtobot\fR and \fBwclrtobot\fR routines erase from the cursor to the
end of screen.  That is, they erase all lines below the cursor in the window.
Also, the current line to the right of the cursor, inclusive, is erased.

The \fBclrtoeol\fR and \fBwclrtoeol\fR routines erase the current line
to the right of the cursor, inclusive, to the end of the current line.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return the integer \fBOK\fR.  The SVr4.0 manual says "or a
non-negative integer if \fBimmedok\fR is set", but this appears to be an error.
.SH NOTES
Note that \fBerase\fR, \fBwerase\fR, \fBclear\fR, \fBwclear\fR,
\fBclrtobot\fR, and \fBclrtoeol\fR may be macros.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions are described in the XSI Curses draft.  The draft specifies
that they return \fBERR\fR on failure, but specifies no error conditions.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBncurses\fR(3X), \fBcurs_outopts\fR(3X), \fBcurs_refresh\fR(3X)
.\"#
.\"# The following sets edit modes for GNU EMACS
.\"# Local Variables:
.\"# mode:nroff
.\"# fill-column:79
.\"# End:
