.\"*****************************************************************************
.\" Copyright 1995 by Thomas E. Dickey.  All Rights Reserved.                  *
.\"                                                                            *
.\" You may freely copy or redistribute this software, so long as there is no  *
.\" profit made from its use, sale trade or reproduction. You may not change   *
.\" this copyright notice, and it must be included in any copy made.           *
.\"*****************************************************************************
.TH resizeterm 3X ""
.
.SH NAME
\fBresizeterm\fR - change the curses terminal size
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR

\fBint resizeterm(int lines, int columns);\fR
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is an extension to the curses library.
It provides callers with a hook into the \fBncurses\fR data to resize windows,
primarily for use by programs running in an X Window terminal (e.g., xterm).
The function \fBresizeterm\fR resizes the standard and current windows
to the specified dimensions, and adjusts other bookkeeping data used by
the \fBncurses\fR library that record the window dimensions.

When resizing the windows, the function blank-fills the areas that are
extended. The calling application should fill in these areas with
appropriate data.

The function does not resize other windows.
.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The function returns the integer \fBERR\fR upon failure and \fBOK\fR on success.
It will fail if either of the dimensions less than or equal to zero,
or if an error occurs while (re)allocating memory for the windows. 
.
.SH NOTES
While this function is intended to be used to support a signal handler
(i.e., for SIGWINCH), care should be taken to avoid invoking it in a
context where \fBmalloc\fR or \fBrealloc\fR may have been interrupted,
since it uses those functions.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBwresize\fR(3x).
.
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Dickey (from an equivalent function written in 1988 for BSD curses).
.\"#
.\"# The following sets edit modes for GNU EMACS
.\"# Local Variables:
.\"# mode:nroff
.\"# fill-column:79
.\"# End:
