.\"*****************************************************************************
.\" Copyright 1995 by Thomas E. Dickey.  All Rights Reserved.                  *
.\"                                                                            *
.\" You may freely copy or redistribute this software, so long as there is no  *
.\" profit made from its use, sale trade or reproduction. You may not change   *
.\" this copyright notice, and it must be included in any copy made.           *
.\"*****************************************************************************
.TH wresize 3X ""
.
.SH NAME
\fBwresize\fR - resize a curses window
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR

\fBint wresize(WINDOW *win, int lines, int columns);\fR
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBwresize\fR function reallocates storage for an \fBncurses\fR
window to adjust its dimensions to the specified values.
If either dimension is larger than the current values, the
window's data is filled with blanks that have the current background rendition
(as set by \fBwbkgndset\fR) merged into them.
.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The function returns the integer \fBERR\fR upon failure and \fBOK\fR on success.
It will fail if either of the dimensions less than or equal to zero,
or if an error occurs while (re)allocating memory for the window.
.
.SH NOTES
The only restriction placed on the dimensions is that they be greater than zero.
The dimensions are not compared to \fBcurses\fR screen dimensions to
simplify the logic of \fBresizeterm\fR.
The caller must ensure that the window's dimensions fit within the
actual screen dimensions.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBresizeterm\fR(3x).
.
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Dickey (from an equivalent function written in 1988 for BSD curses).
.\"#
.\"# The following sets edit modes for GNU EMACS
.\"# Local Variables:
.\"# mode:nroff
.\"# fill-column:79
.\"# End:
